All right guys so now we're gonna get to the fun part which is the timeline.
So let's go to our style dot CSX.
And let's start off with the timeline you well so we'll see timeline you Al and it's not much.
We just want to add the background it's a background which is going to be the primary color.
OK so we'll save that and we see no difference there but I just want to add that and then padding.
We're going to do 50 pixels top and bottom zero left and right.
So we just move that down a little bit.
Now for the list items to timeline you well ally and we want to set the list style to none.
So make sure there's no bullet points and then we want to position this relative.
OK.
And the reason for that is we're gonna position some of the stuff inside of it.
Absolute.
So we want to make sure this is relative.
And then we're gonna set the with two six pixels and we're gonna.
And you'll see why in a little bit we're gonna set the margin 0 auto that pushes it into the middle
and then we're going to say some give it some padding top of let's do 50 pixels.
So for each list item and then the background
we're gonna do white.
OK.
So what we've done here is we've created our line as you can see which is US has a width of six pixels.
Now the boxes that are going to be coming off the sides are actually going to be the divs.
OK.
So if you look at our team all inside the ally we have the divs.
So those are gonna be the the boxes.
So that's why put six pixels for the ally itself because it's basically just the line.
So let's go down here let's say boxes actually right here you know what we'll do is we'll say create
line
and let's see we're going to take time line you l l II div and let's say position relative.
And from the bottom we're gonna say 0.
OK.
So we're going to start from zero from the bottom and then we're gonna set the width of the initial
width of the boxes to 400 pixels.
OK so now we have each div is four hundred pixels wide.
And we need some padding so padding will say 1 Ram gives it some padding.
We also want a background.
So we'll do background and let's use our secondary color.
So we'll say var and let's say dash dash secondary colour and save.
And now we start to see our boxes forming.
Now I want to add a transition on this because ultimately if we add our javascript we'll have some animation.
So we're gonna add transition all let's say zero point five seconds and let's do ease ease in out
OK so that's all divs now.
The way I want to do this is the right side because remember we're gonna have him on the right and the
left the right side is gonna be the odd in the left side will be the even gay.
Now remember we have the end child selector and we can choose odd and even so let's go down here and
let's say right side.
So we're going to take the time line you l l II and we want to choose the n dash child and let's take
all the odd and we want the div K we want to make sure we're targeting the divs divs is what have is
where the box with the padding 400 pixels wide that's the div not the ally.
And then here we're gonna say from the left we want this to be 40 pixels OK.
And we'll save and notice that all the odds now are 40 pixels from the left.
OK.
So for the left side we'll go ahead and just copy this and let's say left side we're going to choose
the Evens and we're gonna say from the left we want to go.
Now remember though what we're saying is from the from the middle here which is the left we want to
go this way.
So we're gonna do negative four hundred and thirty four pixels and save.
And that's going to bring it to the other side.
Now I want to have the little dots here for each item in the timeline.
So let's go down here and let's say dots and the dots.
It's gonna be a timeline.
You l ally and we're gonna say after.
OK.
So we're gonna use the after pseudo selector let's say.
Content nothing in position absolutes.
Remember we created this this line here with the ally so we're just saying after that we want to position
this absolute we want to say from the left 50 percent and we're gonna set from the bottom zero and let's
set the width so the width of the dot I'm going to say 25 pixels height also twenty five pixels.
Now if I save that we're not going to see it yet because there's no background it's basically just just
invisible so let's say background and I'm just going to inherit.
So it should be.
Well actually let's.
What I want to do is I want it to be white to begin with.
But once the sides are once they're brought in when we use the javascript I then want it to be filled
with blue.
But for now are the I'm sorry not blue with the primary color but for now let's just use the primary
color.
So see Dash Dash primary color.
And if we save it's you can see what do we want.
Now we want secondary I'm sorry.
You can't see it.
So it's a secondary color.
All right.
Now I want to move it over and I also want to make it into a circle so to move it over I'm gonna add
a transform because remember we can do transform translate to move it let's say translate and we want
to translate on the x axis.
So we're gonna use translate X and we want to bring it over negative however much to the left we put
it so we put it 50 percent to the left.
So we want to say negative 50 percent and save and that will bring it right smack dab in the middle
and then let's make it into a circle by just simply doing border radius 50 percent and save us.
There we go.
Okay.
So now we have our dots.
Let's see.
So the next thing actually yeah that's good.
So let's add a transition
because like I said when we add the javascript I want it to be white at first and then.
And then transition to to blue.
When I went to certain classes added.
That's basically what the javascript is gonna do it's going to add a certain class that will do certain
things like position these.
So slide them in and also change the color of this but for it to do it smoothly we need to add a transition.
So let's transition the background zero point five seconds and ease in out OK so let's see the next
thing I want to work on is the arrows because we want little arrows pointing to the DOT and the way
that we can do that is manipulating the border.
OK so let's go we'll go right right down here.
Now we're going to hit the arrows are going to be on the div before.
So we're gonna say timeline div before and we're gonna have to we'll have some styles that will pertain
to just the left and just the right because obviously the arrows will be facing a different way depending
on if it's on the left or right box but we're going to add some similar styles to all of the arrows
so let's say content just blank quotes and then we want to position absolute.
OK.
So it's gonna be positioned absolute within the div and we're gonna say let's go from the bottom five
pixels up.
Because we want it to be we don't want it to be right at the bottom we want it to be like up five pixels
and then we're gonna set the width to zero and the height to zero because the board the arrows are gonna
come from the border.
OK it's gonna be just from the border with and then let's set border style to solid.
OK.
Now the reason I'm just doing border style here is because whether it's on the left or the right it
the style is gonna be solid.
However the width and the color are gonna have different properties depending on if it's on the left
or the right.
So let's go down here actually I'll put a comment here and I'll say arrows say arrows base
and let's go down here and let's say right arrows are right side arrows.
And notice if I say we have these see these little dot dots or these little squares on each side.
That's what we created with this.
This whole style right here.
If I get rid of that and save those those squares disappear.
So we've created that.
Now what I want to do is grab this the odd div because that's the right side and we'll paste that in.
And remember the before selector is is how we're creating these arrows.
So we want to do colon before and let's move it over so we'll see from the left.
Negative 15 pixels by save that.
You'll see that now this has moved over and the way that we can get this to basically shaped like like
a point using CSF is with the border width and border color in certain spots.
So border with we can do top right bottom left.
So we're gonna do eight pixels top 16 pixels right eight pixels bottom and zero left top right bottom
left.
And if I save that you'll see that it just gets bigger really.
Now we only want to color certain certain parts of it.
We want to make transparent in certain parts we want to color.
So let's do border dash color and we're gonna say transparent for the first value second is gonna be
the secondary color.
So var secondary color and then the next two will be transparent.
All right.
Now if I save that it turns into an arrow guy or that's it's shaped like an arrow.
And this is done with with just the border it's a solid water we give it widths on each on each side
and set it to transparent except one side and we get this point effect and if we move this if we add
to it like let's say bottom 25 we can move the arrow up if we want but we want it right on par with
the circle.
So five pixels is good.
It's basically right in the middle there.
And for the other side for this over here let's just copy this pace set in and say left side arrows
change this to even because that's the left and we're going to set the position to be from the right
15 percent 15 pixels and then we need to change this stuff up because if I save this you'll see that
it's it's pointing the wrong way.
So we want to change the width to be eight pixels top 0 8 pixels and then sixteen at the end.
All right.
So if I saved that we can't even see it because we need to change this the color pattern up.
Basically we want transparent for the first three and then have the secondary color as the last value
like that and save.
And there we go.
So now we have our arrows.
OK.
So it's kind of cool that you can do this kind of stuff with CSX and it's a little it's a little difficult
to understand but you know you'll you'll get the hang of it as you create stuff like this more and more
so.
And this is kind of advanced.
This is this is pretty pretty advanced SS So we have our points this looks pretty good.
I think what we need to do next is make it responsive because if I make this smaller you'll see it's
basically just it's just stuck in that width no matter what I do.
So in the next video we're going to add some media queries and we're good just going to change a couple
things up depending on the screen size.